>> Steve Kinney: So in this example,
what I'm going to do is honestly just
going to create five rando tokens
because it doesn't really matter.
And we're going to see like how it's going
to create a little chart for me that is
going to show how it will think about the
five tokens as it processes each token.
Which is going to go about how you expect,
right?
Which is when it is on token one, how many
tokens do you think the decoder how many
tokens do you think it's
going to care about?
The answer showed up, right?
So at this point, which is random tokens
that don't mean anything with a causal
attention mask where we basically
zero out all future tokens, right,
as we saw before.
At the first token is processed,
it only cares about the first token.
And it's only considering the first
token in that understanding, right?
Process the first token.
Now it only and it basically just
nerfs any other tokens out of control.
It does not care.
So at first,
we only care about the first token.
And then when we try to come up with,
we come up with a second token.
We try to come up with a third token,
we only care about the first two.
Bert will look in both directions.
A GPT is only going to look backwards
to figure out how to predict,
but then it will use all the ones
that are predicted previously to
inform the next one along
with all of your prompt.
When we think about, I said this earlier,
when we think about like ChatGPT or
Claude, we think about I ask question,
it gives me answer.
It must be like question answering.
No, it's basically taking your entire
text, drawing a line of demarcation,
looking back at it,
guessing the first word,
it should say guessing the second word.
And you see those
reasoning models like O3 or
doing thinking in Claude where they
will spend a certain amount adding
context themselves before they spit out
the answer, right, reflecting on it.
But that's all just text generation
getting put onto the stack, effectively.
Then all the thinking that it did, right,
is getting stuck on there as well.
And so that's also it's using all that
thinking to predict what the next word
should be, right?
And so
that's just a level of sophistication.
Because all it ever works on is,
is all of the tokens up until now,
what should the next one be?
Now we've got GPT medium.
Pull that down,
you can see there's that vocab JSON again.
There's also of a given one you
noticed before we were using GPT2,
now we grab GPT2 medium.
So there are also sizes.
If you go grab the open source LLMs for
LLAMA 3 there is an 8
billion parameter version,
a 14 billion parameter version,
a 27 billion parameter version.
40, don't quote me on this.
105, I can't run on my machine,
so on and so forth.
So you can get not only different
models in terms of generation,
you can obviously get different
sizes of models as well.
Cool, cool, cool.
>> Male Student 1: Have a question
just about running models.
So we've been talking about
different parameter sizes.
Is this confined to
actual physical memory or
can it do some swapping
on faster virtual memory?
>> Steve Kinney: I think for most things,
it's like you can swap something
between RAM and GPU memory.
But I think for most, it's got to
be loaded in some sort of memory.
Yeah, it's tricky because on a Mac,
I don't even have two kinds of memory,
right?
>> Male Student 1: I'm just thinking
it fakes, even if it's faking it and
writing it to disk, [CROSSTALK].
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I don't think
it can like page disk at all, right?
I think the entire model
has to be even more gets.
I don't, yeah.
The tricky part is when I've
run these things on my machine,
a Mac does not separate
GPU RAM from system RAM.
So I always like forget in this case,
right, as well.
But where are we going with this?
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
so we've pulled in pad token.
We've pulled in our model at this point.
So there's a bunch of decoding strategies.
And this is where we can start to play
with, I don't need all of this right here.
We've got the greedy decoding strategy.
Just pick the single
most likely less token.
It's fast and predictable.
We but we will get mostly
the same thing every time.
The other thing we can do is start to
play with that temperature, right?
Let's actually run all of these and
just see some stuff in here.
We'll let all that go for a second.
So here I'm having it run multiple times.
We saw this at the beginning.
This is a temperature of roughly,
at this point, zero.
It's just using that
greedy immediate next one.
I have a max token limit of 20.
And so it did stop at one point,
if we bump that up to maybe 22,
given this particular answer.
>> Steve Kinney: Give that a second.
We will likely see two of the exact
same sentences when it comes out.
Yeah, right, and so
there is no guessing at this point.
It literally will begin to like, you will
always get the same thing every time
because it is picking
the most likely next word.
Now, you can have some questions
on why those are the next words.
I cannot answer that one for you.
But statistically speaking,
that according to GPT2,
did anyone look up when GPT2 dropped?
It might have been like happier times,
yeah.
You will get effectively the same output.
And so then we have that temperature.
We accidentally saw this a little bit
earlier as well when we played around with
it, where we will get
slightly different ones.
But this graphs it out for you.
So for all of the words,
what was my initial beginning one?
What did I write here?
A lot of that's the graphing stuff.
I think it's that, yes,
the artificial intelligence is.
So a lot of this code,
if you're like, what is all of this,
it's drawing the pretty graphs.
Don't worry about the code.
It's just drawing the pretty graphs.
So you can see for each temperature
level what it thinks the next,
what his choices of
the next word should be.
At a very low temperature,
it doesn't have a lot of options, right,
and a lot of creativity there.
As the temperature goes up, the amount
of words it's willing to consider and
sample about to be the next word,
right, goes up.
And so that's where that creativity comes
from versus always getting the same thing.
The lower you turn that knob, the almost
like turns the overall volume down.
So you've gotta be really
loud to get through.
And as you turn the temperature up,
you can get more noise, right?
And so the higher the temperature,
the more words are statistically
available for it to pick.
Which will either get you more creative
answers or complete garbage, right?
And that's why it's a dial, right,
that you can kind of set as well.
By default, you usually see 0.5.
If we did it at 0.7, you get something
a little bit better than when we saw
originally at the lowest setting.
The future of artificial intelligence
is a wider, more complicated topic.
What kind of services and capabilities
will be needed to support the growing
demands of AI in many
areas of everyday life?
Yeah, it's GPT2.
So it still reads those tests
that you took in third grade,
the reading comprehension
standardized test.
It's not necessarily an interesting read,
but you can kind of see
with the graphing how its choices
of the next word tends to come up.
And then we have that top K and
top P Nucleus name.
And again,
I will remind you that these are all
notebooks where you can go in here.
You want to change that
to a different number.
You want to turn on the top K.
You can go ahead and
try out all of these things and
you can kind of see how
the differences will show back up.
>> Steve Kinney: The fun part is you never
really know what you're gonna get with
these things.
The future of artificial
intelligence is like a trap.
Its greatest threat isn't foreseeable.
It's between you and, it says Jon Goodman.
I think John Goodman,
the actor has an H in his name, though.
This might be like it's not
totally wrong on that one.
But, like, one of the things that jumps
out at me that'd be interesting to do is
you then take that output and then throw
it in that, like, named entity recogn and
figure out what comes out.
Always the combination of things
becomes the most interesting.
But yeah, we could also, what would happen
if we just turned this down to 0.1, right?
We don't give it as many things.
I wonder if we end up something very close
to what we saw in the very beginning,
right?
That's very much like Bart Simpson
drawing on the board, right?
But again,
it's just where we turn these knobs to get
the outputs we necessarily want to get.
Like, what happens if we turn this to,
like,
I don't know,
it was like 0.92 originally, right?
And then we'll turn that down and
we'll turn up the top K to kind of like,
view the difference.
Now we're a lot more positive.
>> Steve Kinney: And it's interesting once
you kind of know that every previous word
predicts the next one.
That is almost what makes it beautiful,
which is it will continue on whatever
weird tangent it decided to go
on to a certain extent, right?
It knows it's made up, possibly a real
person, possibly at a real company.
And it will continue with that because
each word informs the next word.
Right, and you do have a corpus of
previous words that it will at least more
likely to stay on track until it starts
blowing through its context window and
forgets the original words.
Because if it gets too long, it will start
dropping the packets at the beginning, and
that's when the hallucinations happen.
But like most lies,
as soon as you start down the path,
you're pretty good at lying
until you've lied for so
long you forgot the original basis,
and that's when your lie falls apart.
The same is true with statistics and AI.
Let's go turn that one back down to zero.
And what happens if we,
I think that one ends up
being an integer, if I'm not mistaken.
I might get yelled at, we'll see.
This is what happens when you
load a JavaScript engine.
Yeah, no,
that one was pretty boring again.
Let's see, only give it a top K this time,
because I think maybe the top P was
also playing around with that as well.
>> Steve Kinney: That's gonna be,
that's a bumper
sticker waiting to happen.
All right,
I think people should be smarter.
They should be smarter than us.
Here's your challenge.
You wanna make money?
This is how you do it.
You just get the lightest weight model,
you turn the knobs all the way up.
And then you just print Instagram ads for
T shirts, right?
Yeah, I think low quality models
plus some free time could
definitely make you a T shirt company or
bumper sticker company.
If anyone would like a free how
to get rich from this workshop,
I think AI generated meme stuff
that just makes literally no sense.
Yeah, so this is taking any
of the top 60 most likely
words after the previous ones and
going for it,
a research outfit which wants to make
us better than our ancestors, right?
Because with the top K,
all I think of the first of
the 60 most likely words are fair game,
and it will sample based on those.
So, yeah, top P better in a lot of cases.
We're talking about how Gemini 2.5,
and Claude 4 Opus,
and 03 have 2 million
tokens of context window.
Our good friend GPT2 over here has
a context window of 1024, right?
And so it will start losing things off the
beginning of the stack if it goes on for
too long.
Which point,
that chain of thought of making stuff up,
it will lose the original seed of that.
Which could end poorly for
you, it might not.
Yeah, like, and then like we said before,
some of those special tokens
come into play, right?
And so, in some way,
it's guessing another word, right?
It can plausibly guess in a lot of cases,
I should probably stop talking now.
Which is a thing, it took me decades.
And my wife would argue one day,
maybe, I'm trying to learn myself.
Which is this idea of like,
it could have an end of sequence token
where you can actually say, hey.
Because again,
the tools don't always know to stop.
So you have to say, okay.
An argument that you can give to this
model in the pipeline right now is,
hey, this particular tokenizer for
whatever model you're using.
This is,
I think if you hover over it, yeah,
the end of sequence token for,
am I using GPT2 medium, I think?
The ID of that token is 50256.
So when you come across that token,
even if we haven't hit the max tokens,
stop talking, right?
And that's a valid token as well.
So then we, hopefully,
and again it becomes a game, right?
We're going to say your
max new tokens are 100.
Like, it might, yeah.
If we didn't come across one
of the like max new tokens,
we can jump this up to 200.
Hopefully, what you would find is
that it will, like if it hits the max
first before it hits an end of sequence
token, it doesn't know like to stop.
But like hopefully if
you give it enough room,
it will eventually come
across one of those.
We could also change the prompt or
something to a little shorter.
But like I said,
these are all to be played with as well.
But my patience for letting it go
is going to run out real fast.
>> Steve Kinney: We got very,
>> Steve Kinney: We got
duplicate up there as well.
But do I have a, also might have
a memory issue I gotta look at too.
Like we have the things overriding.
But yeah, anyway,
you can define the end token.
And hopefully,
you will kind of get a sense of,
it will figure out how to do that as well.
Now we talked about before we saw
the generative is making stuff up and
the extractive will actually
find it in the text.
Right, those are two very different bases.